PRINCE of PERSIA

Introduction

It is a time of darkness.  While the sultan is off fighting a foreign
war, his Grand Vizier Jaffar has seized the reins of power.
Throughout the land,  the people groan under the yoke of tyranny,
and dream of better days.

You are the only obstacle between Jaffar and the throne.  An
adventurer from a foreign land, innocent of palace intrigues, you have
won the heart of the Sultan's lovely young daughter.  And in so doing,
you have unwittingly made a powerful enemy.

On Jaffar's orders, you are arrested, stripped of your sword and
possessions, and thrown into the Sultan's dungeons.  As for the
Princess, Jaffar gives her a choice, and an hour to decide: Marry
him--or die.

Locked in her room high in the palace tower, the Princess rests all
her hopes on you.  For when the last sands drain from the hourglass,
her choice can bring only a throne for the Grand Vizier...a new reign
of terror for his long-suffering subjects...and death for the brave
youth who might have been...Prince of Persia.

----------------
What you'll Need
----------------

To play PRINCE of PERSIA, you'll need a BBC Master computer with all four
sideways RAM banks available for use.

----------------
Keyboard Control
----------------

Key configuration can be changed at any time during gameplay by pressing
CTRL-K. Default controls are:

             _____________________
            |  Movement     | Key |
            |---------------+-----|
            | Left          |  Z  |
            | Right         |  X  |
            | Up            |  *  |
            | Down          |  ?  |
            | Jump Forward  |  ]  |
            |_______________|_____|

Action button: RETURN

----------------
Joystick Control
----------------

Unfortunately joystick control is not current implemented for the BBC Master
so use the keyboard instead.

------------------------------
Running, Jumping, and Climbing
------------------------------

* To run:  Push the key for the direction you want to go (Left or
Right).  Release the key to stop.

* To take careful steps:  Hold down the action button and press the
key for the direction you want to go. You can use careful steps
to move right up to the edge of a pit or a suspicious-looking floor
section.

* To jump up:  Press the Up key.

* To jump forward:  When you are standing still, press the Jump Forward
key or press the Left or Right key and Up together in the direction you
want to jump.

You can jump farther with a running start.  For a running jump over a
chasm, back up at least two full strides from the edge.  Press the Left
or Right key to start running, then Up to jump.  Don't be afraid of
pressing the Up key too early; your character will wait until the last
possible moment to jump.

* To climb up onto a ledge:  Stand facing the ledge and press the Up
key.  If necessary, use careful steps to position yourself up onto the
ledge and press Up.

* To hang from a ledge:  Press the Action key and hold it down.  To let
yourself drop, release the Action key.  To pull yourself up onto the
ledge, push the Up key.

Any time you jump or fall within reach of a ledge, you can grab onto
it by pressing the Action key.  Remember--when you release the key, you
let go of the ledge.

* To climb down from a ledge:  Step up to the edge, turn around, then
press the Down key.  To hang from the ledge, press the Action key and
hold it down.

* To duck:  Press the Down key.  Release it to stand up.

* To pick something up:  Stand in front of it and press the Action key.

--------
Fighting
--------

When you come face to face with an armned opponent, release the
keys.  You will automatically draw your sword--if you have
one--and go en garde.  In this stance, the controls are somewhat
different.

* To strike:  Press the Action key.

* To advance:  Press the key in the direction you're facing
(towards your opponent).

* To retreat:  Press the key away from your opponent.

* To block your opponent's strike:  Press the Up key just as your
opponent is striking.  It may take some practice to get the timing
right.  Watch your opponent carefully, and wait for him to strike.

* To stop fighting:  Press the Down key.  Once you have put away
your sword, you are free to run, jump and climb as usual.  Be careful,
though--when you are off guard, a single sword blow can kill
you.  To draw your sword again, press the Action key.

-----
Hints
-----

* To get the maximum distance from a standing jump across a
  chasm, use careful steps to move right up to the edge of the pit
  before you jump.

* If you jump a chasm but fall short, you may still be able to grab
  on to the opposite ledge by pushing a button.  Remember, when
  you let go of the button, you let go of the ledge.

* Every time you block an opponent's sword strike, the force of
  the blow pushes you back slightly.  If you adopt a defensive
  strategy, you will find yourself steadily losing ground.  Try
  following up a successful block with a strike.

* Test for loose floor sections by jumping up and down.

* You can knock out a loose floor section by standing directly
  beneath it and jumping up.  Try not to be there when it lands.

* There are two kinds of pressure-activated floor plates.  One kind
  raises gates, the other lowers them.  With experience, you can
  learn to distinguish them from ordinary floor sections and from
  each other.

* Learn to recognize different kinds of potions by sight.

* You can cross a bed of spikes safely by taking careful steps.

* A two-story drop will hurt you.  A three-story drop will kill you.

* You never know what you'll find in a dungeon.  Don't be afraid
  to explore, and to experiment.  After all, you've got nothing to
  lose except your life, the Princess, and the entire Kingdom.

--------------
Life and Death
--------------

The row of red hearts in the lower left corner of the screen
indicates your current strength.  Every time you get hurt, you lose
one unit of strength.  When the last of your strength disappears, you
die.

You start the game with three units of strength. (Later on, you may be
able to increase your strength beyond this limit.)

Things that cost you one unit of strenght include a blow by a guard's
sword, two-story falls, and having a section of the floor collapse on
your head.  Other, more serious accidents can kill you outright.

An opponent's strength is indicated by a row of blue bullets in the
lower right corner of the screen.  To kill an opponent, you need to
take away all his strength units.

-----------
Adventuring
-----------

Although this is your time inside the Sultan's palace, you do have
some general information that may help you:

* The Princess is imprisoned in the high tower of the palace.  To
  reach her, you must find your way out of the dungeons, through
  the palace's main building, and up to the top to the tower.

* Generally speaking, the guards on the dungeon duty tend to be the
  dregs of the Sultan's corps.  The more capable ones are usually
  assigned to the palace's main building.  The very best of
  them--the deadliest swordsmen in the Sultan's employ--are
  kept for the elite honor guard in the tower, where they are
  responsible for the personal safety of the Princess and of the
  Grand Vizier.

* Since your arrival in the city, you have heard some strange
  rumors.  It is whispered that the Grand Vizier Jaffar is a
  magician, a master of the black arts of enchantment; that his
  powers are more than mortal.  Knowing, as you do, that much
  of what passes for magic is mere trickery and superstition, you
  are reluctant to take these stories too seriously.  Nevertheless,
  they don't do much for your peace of mind.

----------------------
Death and Continuation
----------------------

When you die, the message "PRESS ACTION TO CONTINUE" will appear on
the screen.  Press the Action key to return to the beginning of the
current level.

If you don't press the key, the message will remain on the screen for
about 20 seconds, then start to flash in warning, accompanied by a
chime.  After ten chimes, the game will end and you will be returned
to the title sequence.

If you get yourself into a situation where you can find no way out,
press CTRL-A to restart the level.

You can continue the game as many times as you want without penalty.
Remember, though, the sands in the hourglass are draining away....

To see how much time is left, press the T key.


----------------
Saving Your Game
----------------

To save your current game, press CTRL-G at any time during play.
The program will briefly access the drive, then continue with the game.

The next time you boot the PRINCE of PERSIA disk, instead of pressing
any key to start a new game, press CTRL-L.  The game will resume from
he beginning of the level you were on when you last saved it.

------------
Special Keys
------------

CTRL-P.........Freeze frame.  Press P for single frame advance.
               Press any other key to resume play.

CTRL-K.........Redefine keys.

CTRL-R.........Ends the game and returns you to the title sequence.

CTRL-A.........Restarts play from the beginning of the current level.

CTRL-S.........Turns off all sound.  Press again to turn the sound
               back on.

CTRL-N.........Turns off the music.  Press again to turn the music
               back on.

CTRL-G.........Saves the current game to disk.

CTRL-L.........Resumes the last saved game. (Press during the title
               sequence.)

T..............Press to see how much time is left.

----------------
About the Author
----------------

Jordan Mechner, 25, is the author of the award-winning computer game
Karateka.  Hailed by Games magazine as "a software landmark," Karateka
broke new ground in the use of cinematic techniques to tell a story
within a computer game, and has sold over 400,000 copies worldwide.

To achieve the extraordinary realism of the animation in PRINCE of
PERSIA, Jordan studied hours of live-action footage, including
swordfighting sequences from classic Hollywood swashbuckling films of
the Thirties.  Two years in the making, PRINCE of PERSIA is the
culmination of a lifelong fascination with animation, and ten years of
hacking on the Apple II.

A native New Yorker and a 1985 graduate of Yale University, Jordan now
lives in San Francisco.

---------------
About the Music
---------------

The Music for PRINCE of PERSIA uses a "leitmotiv" approach in which
each theme is associated with a specific character or idea.  The basic
themes are:  Prince, Princess, Jaffar, Danger, Sword, Shadow, Death,
Time, and Magic.

--------------
About the Port
--------------

http://bitshifters.github.io
http://github.com/kieranhj/pop-beeb
